Next, Dr. Lee. He says I misled you! In fact, we owe five billion dollars! You know, he is quite a clever man really, Dr. Lee Siew Choh, but a reckless man. He never bothered to learn seriously about the business of government. He has never grown up. You see, I can’t make a statement and say we got eight billion dollars in external reserves without somebody -- because all these figures are published by MAS, by the Finance Ministry -- telling him there is a debt of five billion. Yes, there is a debt of five billion. It is an internal debt of five billion -- money, loan, borrowed from the CPF -- loan to statutory boards for building houses, for power stations, for telephone exchanges. The assets are here. Our external debts amount to S$570 million or 7% of our external assets. That’s what we have achieved in 17 years. If you listened to them and spend away ... But ... they proposed to do it, we will be bankrupt in no time at all.

They start off ... for the English-educated it’s a good slogan, you know: the caring society. It’s actually a crib, it’s plagiarism from the British Labour Party’s: “The Compassionate Society.” It sounds much better than ‘caring’; it’s ‘compassionate’. You have compassion for the poor, for the disabled, for the less successful. You know the end result? It’s not to each man his worth. They are no longer seeking in Britain equal opportunities. What they want is equal reward regardless of what your contribution is. That is a different game together.

So when I was asked in Australia: “Are you a socialist?” You see, it is a loaded question, because they know I don’t agree with the new Left. I said, “Yes, perhaps an old-fashioned one.” I believe in equal opportunities. I believe the human being wants an equal chance with his fellow human being, regardless of his father’s wealth or status in order that he can do his best, in order that he can compete and climb up to the top. And that is so, whether you are in Moscow, whether you are in Peking, whether you are in Washington or London. And you can’t reverse human nature. When you try to do that, as the British Labour Party or a section of it has tried, then you being a whole great people down. So they say, “Ah, that's elitism!" Competitive examinations, the creaming of the best into special institutions where they are made to go faster, where they will become high achievers and high performers for the society. They are penalised. Net result, the country suffers. Why should you try? In order that you will pay penalising taxes to keep the layabout happy.