And let me tell you -- many of you here are working for the new banks, the new merchant houses, the offshore, banking -- financial institutions. If you want the Asian Dollar to be here and your Singapore dollar goes down with crackpot policies, you lose it. Why should anybody keep his money, transfer his money into Singapore? You’ve got to be stable, you’ve got to be strong, and to do that, like the Swiss, like the Germans, like the Japanese, they maintain very firm policies, fair and firm.

You know, when I was in Peking -- and they were quite frank -- they say, “We are socialists, we are not communists.” Communism means from each his best to each his wants.

And that’s what been happening. There is an awful, big row going on between the so-called Cultural Revolutionists, the “Gang of Four”, who say, “Managers” pay the same, get the same pay as the workers.” What is the point of being a manager? You carry the can, you get the same pay as the worker? And the foreman gets the same pay? Doesn’t work. And they have been quite honest. So they had to bring the troops down to Wuhan to restore order. And now slowly, more pragmatic, more practical policies will be pursued. You have read and you have seen on television the communists that we have had to detain and who have been released because they publicly disavowed the use of violence. The highest ranking so far, best-educated -- some EO, Nanyang graduates in the Income Tax Department; Polytechnic students, University of Singapore students who were from the Chinese schools. I will tell you the reason why they have not done better. Because, every year, we give hundreds of scholarships. When I was a schoolboy, there were only 10, 12 scholarships. And to go abroad, there were only two. Now we give hundreds, so that anybody with the ability and the energy makes it. 120 to 150 go to top universities in the English-speaking world, every year. And the policy has paid. Otherwise, you’ve got some really bright fellows -- you won’t be reading about Lee Siew Choh. His mind stopped in 1963. You know, he has never moved with the times.