So when I was asked in Australia: “Are you a socialist?” You see, it is a loaded question, because they know I don’t agree with the new Left. I said, “Yes, perhaps an old-fashioned one.” I believe in equal opportunities. I believe the human being wants an equal chance with his fellow human being, regardless of his father’s wealth or status in order that he can do his best, in order that he can compete and climb up to the top. And that is so, whether you are in Moscow, whether you are in Peking, whether you are in Washington or London. And you can’t reverse human nature. When you try to do that, as the British Labour Party or a section of it has tried, then you being a whole great people down. So they say, “Ah, that's elitism!" Competitive examinations, the creaming of the best into special institutions where they are made to go faster, where they will become high achievers and high performers for the society. They are penalised. Net result, the country suffers. Why should you try? In order that you will pay penalising taxes to keep the layabout happy.

You know, you can get three-quarters of your salary for somewhere between six to nine months of your first few months of unemployment. So they go round and say, “Well, let’s sit back.” They copied that in Australia and now they have got a new word called: “bludgeoning.” So the world doesn’t stand still.

The socialists found it -- or the Marxists amongst them -- found it: equal opportunities doesn’t work to bring the society down. Equal opportunities produce a society that rose quickly -- social mobility. They don’t want that. The Marxists want revolution. They want discontent. So they propose all kinds of scatterbrain theories. It has ended up in huge public expenditure, which has led to government deficits in Britain of £12 billion per annum. All right, they are a wealthy, great nation, high technology -- North Sea oil. But even then, the IMF says: “Right, you will do the following things before we lend you the next US$3 ½.” Cut! Can you imagine the pound from $8.75 for so long, went down to $3.95?