Two specific points I looked up because, you know, we try to take the opposition seriously. So when they raised serious points, we looked it up. They are niggardly points. On the big issues, they talked rubbish. Dissolve National Service. Have they taken leave of their senses? 1968, when the British said they were leaving, we got a fright, didn’t we? Because we weren’t ready. When they finally left, last year, there was not a ripple because, you know, I know and everybody knows -- Singapore is not for free. We built it the hard way. And it is not a joke. Maybe they are jokers. Maybe they are joking, I don’t know. But we are not.

But they raised two serious points. Mr. Jeyaretnam says some group of farmers -- 12, I read -- went to see him and as a result of their seeing him, they got no compensation as farmers. I queried. Reply came: the matter was thoroughly investigated. Yes, he did.

But, you know, the government departments are accustomed not to be intimidated either by opposition politicians who are lawyers; or by the government MPs who are lawyers; or by members of my family who are lawyers. Those are standing instructions. And this is a very compact society. If you start doing things, you bend the rules, it’s known very rapidly and quickly, spreads like wildfire. Most governments lose elections in the capital city. You watch the LDP. They lose Tokyo, in Japan. You see, the government in India never won Delhi because they get to know. And we have won in Singapore, repeatedly, on the basis of absolute integrity. Sixteen cases were investigated; 15 were found not genuine farmers. The fact that you keep a few chickens and a few fruit trees do not qualify you. One qualified, and he was given compensation as a farmer. And they can go and see the biggest lawyer in town. The answer will be the same. In fact, the more politics you bring into the matter, the more thoroughly we investigate it and make sure that the rules are observed. And the rules are made for everybody, not just for the general public. And that is the only way of governing -- one-man, one-vote.