And that’s what been happening. There is an awful, big row going on between the so-called Cultural Revolutionists, the “Gang of Four”, who say, “Managers” pay the same, get the same pay as the workers.” What is the point of being a manager? You carry the can, you get the same pay as the worker? And the foreman gets the same pay? Doesn’t work. And they have been quite honest. So they had to bring the troops down to Wuhan to restore order. And now slowly, more pragmatic, more practical policies will be pursued. You have read and you have seen on television the communists that we have had to detain and who have been released because they publicly disavowed the use of violence. The highest ranking so far, best-educated -- some EO, Nanyang graduates in the Income Tax Department; Polytechnic students, University of Singapore students who were from the Chinese schools. I will tell you the reason why they have not done better. Because, every year, we give hundreds of scholarships. When I was a schoolboy, there were only 10, 12 scholarships. And to go abroad, there were only two. Now we give hundreds, so that anybody with the ability and the energy makes it. 120 to 150 go to top universities in the English-speaking world, every year. And the policy has paid. Otherwise, you’ve got some really bright fellows -- you won’t be reading about Lee Siew Choh. His mind stopped in 1963. You know, he has never moved with the times.

You get a real bright young man -- with a whole group of very bright, frustrated people, and you are in deep trouble. But I say -- to each, according to his worth. But we balance up. If this were not a compassionate, humane society by comparison with any other country in the Third World, why do you think thousands, every year, pay $4,000 special admission fee in order to go into our schools. And then they pay $30 -- not $2.50 for miscellaneous expenses for football, shuttlecocks and so on -- ping-pong balls -- and more in secondary schools. They pay these fees to come in here.

You say $4 for a hospital patient. It is not enough to pay his food, for his linen and his pyjamas. It costs $49. Why do you think pregnant women want to come to Singapore to give birth? Because then the child can become a Singapore citizen, isn’t it? Then you are entitled to jobs, schooling, job, home, medical attention -- the whole works. Surely, that is a back-handed tribute to the society that we have built up. Thousands come in to seek medical treatment. Both in private hospitals and the doctors and specialists will tell you that. And in the government hospitals where they pay full charges. I propose to carry this over till tomorrow. I think we fill finish in about six minutes time.